This teaching, as I said, is the teaching of the Buddha, and then this teaching of Dangarapayam Mas
ambha.
And the Buddha who came, of course, many of you know, who came 2,500 or 600 years ago,
and he gave many different teachings. After his enlightenment, he reached the Enlightenment at age
35.
After that, he gave four major seminary teachings, and those are known as the first turning wheel
of Dharma,
second turning wheel of Dharma, and then third turning wheel of Dharma, and then fourth turning
wheel of Dharma in some cases.
And the first, second, and third teachings are only known as the basic Buddhism teaching,
or many times known as the sutra teachings, the causal teachings many times.
What that means, causal teachings, means Buddha giving the teachings of the cause and conditions,
and how to bring the result from the cause, gradually how to develop that.
Cause, we all have the cause. Cause of the teaching or cause of the Enlightenment is we all have.
Those are known as Buddha nature, or basic, our spiritual qualities, basic nature that we all
inherited.
But that cause is not enough, as you all know, we all know.
Even we have the cause, cause is not enough. We need other supports.
Other supports are known as then, conditions.
Cause and condition when it meet in the perfect ways, and then result comes inevitably, and result
comes also gradually.
We have to cause and condition get together, once get together, that's not enough.
We have to continue to preserve, protect, watch, and then we have to do that.
In order to do those, then, what we call spiritual, dharma, joy, devotion, joy for effort, those
all need it.
This is not just a spiritual debt, but when we plant the seeds on the farmland, even in farmers
have to put effort,
even maybe they don't use the devotion, joyful effort, and so forth, but they have to put effort.
Effort, and to continue to look after what they planted, and that looking after those is in the way
of conditions.
Continue to support, and then bring the result, and those then in the result is inevitable.
We don't have to doubt, hesitate, it will not come.
We look after carefully, every part of it, there's conditions existing and applied, the result
comes inevitably.
And that is law of nature.
This, everybody knows, and that's why the farmers planted.
They don't have to be, farmers don't have to be educated, going to school in many ways.
In ancient time, of course, modern time, maybe there's all those different things,
but that is the basic survival, basic intelligence, continuing until now, the farmers grow the
seeds,
and then develop that they do that all the time, and that they know that, there's no need to doubt.
And similarly, the Buddha gave the teachings in the sutra, how to apply the conditions,
how to look after our beautiful seeds, after beautiful nature, and bring growth.
This Buddha-natural growth, what Buddha gave in the sutra teaching, is joy.
It's uplifting, it's rewarding, it's so special, each step is joyful steps.
Each moment is joy, because we are touching something so important, our inner goal, and bring
growth.
It brings beauty, beauty of ours.
Not just only that, when we came to growth of our inner, these qualities, then it brings joy and
happiness to the others too.
And that teaching is known as, then, gradually developing and discovering, full it is ultimate blus
um, call it this.
And this is known as causal teachings, because it's kind of like developing gradually and closely.
And that is most of the time, I mean not most of the time, it's called sutra teachings.
That is in Buddhism, terminology. Sutra. Sutra is again, many of you heard this, but all sutra
means condensate.
Because this sutra teaching, Buddha gave the teaching, is not scattered teachings.
Scattered in bits and different jicapasas that are scattered all out.
But put all so perfectly beautiful in the teaching, teaching the techniques and important
guidelines,
and step by step put together as a condensate, so the manual that we can put easily to the practice
and use that.
That's what is known as sutra. Sutra means condensate, gathered, more precisely.
And those are the causal teachings.
Then the fourth teaching, I said today, the fourth teaching is known as the result teaching, result
teaching.
What it means is result, in the cause, as I said, in the causal, we will gradually look into the
seeds
and protecting, preserving, and then gradually we kind of bring up growth, that's the causal.
But the result, we're looking direct to the result itself, the fruit itself, the final goal itself.
We're not looking waiting for the graduation, we're instantly jumping, instantly targeting to the
goal itself.
The final goal, the result, the result is what?
It's enlightenment, or result is a waking call, the full awakening state. That is a result.
And full awakening is called buddha, in Sanskrit, in Tibet, it's a sanjic.
The fully awake, there's no blood, no shadow, no stains, no any kind of extra package that's
hanging out of that and dragging down that.
It's a full blink, brilliant, waking call that instantly you are focused on that. And that is
result.
And that teaching, or that technique that we're explaining is called tantra, tantra teaching,
mantra teaching, vedayana teachings,
o tantra, mantra, vedayana. Vedayana, of course, many of you have heard that,
vedayana is diamond uplifting, diamond uplifting, call it this.
It's a diamond path. It's fast, speed, and comfort, and then quick, and discovering that, call it.
That is called diamond yana, or diamond uplifting status, lift by diamond call it this.
And that is the result, result yana, or result, result.
So this teaching, what we're going to focus this week is vedayana teachings, vedayana teaching,
mantra teaching, and then tantra teachings.
And what this means, mantra, of course, many of we all know mantra, something that we join, recite,
recite that everybody kind of thinks that that's the mantra, that's true, that's the mantra.
But really mantra means it's transforming the consciousness, or transmitting the consciousness, and
that is mantra.
Man and the mantra in Sanskrit world, there's two word, man. Man is actually every kind of roughly
translated, is mind.
Tera is protecting. Tera is protecting. So what it protects, technique that protects the
consciousness or emotion consciousness, emotion consciousness, or technique that will protect this
conception is not become wild.
That's called mantra. And tantra, again, is Sanskrit world.
And again, this tantra, tantra means continuation, continuation, something continuation, unblocked,
uninterrupted, something continuing.
Today, we are reconnecting to that continuation, to that continuation.
And that is, what is that continuation? That is, again, our inner nature of this mind or nature of
intelligence.
Our inner intelligence, this brilliant, bright intelligence that we all have.
It's not just newly arrived. It's not just newly came here by accidentally. But it's something
continuation. It's continuation.
It's continuity from the timeless times. It's continuing now.
But even it's continuing now, continuing from the timeless times, and continuing now, we did not
recognize.
And we not aware that, even slightly, we didn't aware that, just even though it is with us.
But this teaching is pointing out that continuation and bring back us to that nature, nature as it
is.
And why we are not continuing, why we didn't aware this? This is our duality, our grasping.
We continually project externally, outwardly, and we're catered with this outer. Outer, we really
didn't slightly experience of the inner discontinuations.
But this teaching is immediately reconnected back to that continuation, nature.
And that explain, this teaching, that explaining fully it is, this quality, how to connect it back.
This is called, then, Dantara teachings. That's called Dantara, it's continuation.
So this means, Dantara teaching is, means again, is our inner nature, immediately connected back to
us.
Not just a wedding, but really instantly connected to it is natural, introducing, pointing out, and
then be with that.
And this is, is home sweet home. Home sweet home.
That you're connected back to that politics, instantly. Until now, we're not, we're always looking
out, and went out, and we never really thought of our home sweet home.
You just always, we are, kind of like, carried with, out force. The force of the conception, force
of the perceptions, force of this duality, duality that expanded out, and we continually pursue.
And today is going, connected back to that nature, instantly, quickly pointing out, and to that,
and be with that.
And grew with that. Be with this, enjoy with this.
And this is what, known as, means, Dantara. Dantara means.
And then, Vedayana, that we all basically know. Vedayana. Vedayana is the, like, diamond, I think.
And yana is weaker. Weaker, or diamond, diamond, lifting. Lifting, instantly.
And diamond, generally, again, it means, once you realize this nature, or once you apply this
technique, it transcendent everything into the ordinary natural status, status, or wisdom status.
And natural, it cannot be destroyed and interrupted by any means. Means, it's like diamond.
That, again, is our nature. Our nature of this mind, nature of this qualities, quality of the mind,
cannot be destroyed by any means.
It is like, it is diamond, indestructible status. And yet, it contains all the purity status, all
the quality of the enlightenment, it has.
And that is, again, is about our one's own nature. This nature of the mind, nature of the
consciousness, and nature of these realities.
This cannot be destroyed, yet it can transcendent everything into its ordinary status. Therefore,
it is powerful, lifting, powerful teaching, and this is what is called Vedayana teaching.